we've only heard stories about the city
were heading to most importantly it's
rumored to be the last city in America
with no laws so I'm gonna try to give
you my take on what this lost city in
the desert of California called slap
city really is and our friends Justin
Escalona his girlfriend Marisa and his
best friend Nick from the YouTube
channel play the game films were too
curious not to tag along on the
adventure but before we explored slab
city there was a fascinating place we
simply couldn't avoid listening so my
favorite YouTube video ever I'll call it
was filmed about this right here it's
pretty surreal to be here Lincoln
everyone should go watch it
I found an eyeball like a skeleton of an
eyeball dan how crazy this is not a
beach this is not San this is dead fish
in the 1950s a catastrophic engineering
mistake deviated to Colorado ever into
one of the lowest basins in the country
leading to the unexpected creation of
the largest body of water in California
the Salton Sea but after an entire town
was created around it the water started
to dry up and became so salty that
barely any living organisms survived the
water turned toxic the accidental
paradise was left abandoned and the
millions of fish dead they got stored no
additional there's still like some hints
that all of this is just fish
swampy water it looks like been dry for
a long time Wow I've seen it on film but
seeing a person is totally different Wow
it's surreal when we arrived we found
what might qualifies the strangest
entrance to a town Salvation Mountain a
man called Leonard Knight spent 30 years
of his life building this gigantic art
piece his desire was to spread a simple
message he's so deeply believed in God
is love after his first attempt crumbled
into the ground after four years of hard
work thousands of people came from
around the world to donate paint and he
ended up coating the mountain with a
hundred thousand gallons he passed away
in 2014 and his art has since then been
qualified as a national treasure you
know he was doing this when he was
probably like pumping him up there and
bolt the man you need to know and time
is running short all of these flowers
then it would take him put a ball of
clay on there and pow and punch it with
his fist if nobody remembers my name or
sees you know mentioned me again when
I'm done
cool I don't care Leonard did this and
it's his baby and I'm just honored to be
thank you thank you everybody
now we're gonna try and go to Slab City
which is about two minutes away we're
gonna try and meet some locals and see
these people living in this lawless city
I guess I like you think we'll be able
to meet somebody I don't know
we arrived in Slab City and felt both
shocked and weirdly welcome this is East
Jesus you see the big statue of it all
of these things right here just art
installation look at this Jesus as we're
all dead we realize there's probably not
a single city in the world like this one
originally slab city was a military base
used during World War two but after the
war ended it was taken down and left
abandoned but is still located near an
active bombing range quickly the rumors
spread about the abandoned land and
dozens of squatters arrived and made it
their homes for the winters with no
running water electricity this
alternative living community now hosts
thousands of retirees and army veterans
every year many of the residents are
attracted by the feeling of freedom and
lack of government that comes with
living in an uncontrolled off-grid area
in the middle of the desert how you
doing sir
first off I must explain to you that I
am certified insane I really know I have
papers I am certified insane but this
place is is is a power vortex it's you
know you feel this weird kind of I don't
charge me in the area here and if you
look out there you see you know art
everywhere what brought you here
I can afford I've been like an apartheid
yes see this is a sheltered workshop for
the work ethic comparative work ethic
compared means
lazy okay I have two jobs okay
I'm spiritual guide here at East Jesus
and I can empty the buckets I do so that
all hold hope yeah but there's three of
them there and I change them out mean
them out and spread them out and
everything well so so basically you have
one hand in the other a lot of people
say this this slap city is lawless how
would you say soulless or would you say
no no not lawless is very courteous very
courteous and if you step over the line
to discourtesy it is lawless you know
that you know be courteous to your
neighbor or they will they will shoot
you attract people who are willing to
give more to a project than they got
back from it on paper I'm a very stable
person I am certified insane okay
otherwise I've traveled pretty much
everywhere in the world I'm here for six
months and I go to Vietnam for six
months I have a wife and two two grown
stepdaughters yes I'll give you a hug
all right yes let me give a hug it look
really good
[Music]
[Applause]
the whole thing oh thank you decided to
quit society and become a driftwood
artist I started travelling around the
country and then uh ended up here so
that I want to be part of this so I used
to make high performers turbocharger
machines get it twin turbos for
Corvettes leaving the city behind I mean
my backyard this is my home go to your
job you punch the clock so you can pay
for your place to live so you pay for
your vehicle so you can
get a vacation once a year and get up
and do it again everyday she says plase
is interesting because it girls from
like it is today where there's seven of
us - in about two days there will be 120
of us here and we'll be doing fire
bowling and fire soccer and fire
volleyball and stupid stuff what if I
called stupid I would read like they're
literally on fire
we got a metal net in a fireball we're
gonna wear
welding gloves and it sounds really
stupid safety third that was the whole
point of this place recycle it reuse it
repurpose it or set it on fire yeah
cheers you gonna move you're doing good
I'd love to come here once in a while
and just set things on fire
this is literally insane like this is
but that's the best part there's there's
no logical correlation or Association so
it's hard to have refrigeration here so
it's usually hard to get a cold beer so
we bought some cold beer on the way and
we're gonna give it to them as a thank
you they're still cold right now just
want to say thank you in it yeah
[Music]
yes you guys cheers you guys so happy
all right so we're leaving slab city
we're gonna head home it was a pretty
incredible experience just the people
that there are pretty much surrounded
and immersed in love it's a pretty
amazing community of people just
there's one thing you should never do in
your life
said that subscribe button
[Music]